# Category Generation

Script to generate training data (mappings from single-word categories to words described by those categories). 
For example: 'fruit' (category) would describe 'apple', 'orange', 'banana'.
Uses baseline categories from the SEMCAT paper, then via supervised learning with DSP (similar to the Stanford Alpaca strategy), it prompts GPT-3 to give more examples of category-word pairs. Some filtering is run (categories should only be single word nouns or adjectives), and a Reinforcement Learning Human Feedback (RLHF) step (`audit` function) is used to make sure categories are generally exhaustive & stable when the same word corpus is run through them.

The initial prompts to chatGPT for additional seeding data were:
### You are teaching an English as a Second Language (ESL) class. To help your students learn new vocab, you have decided to divide the words into groups. Each group will be described by one word, which represents a theme. . Here are some examples of themes: sports, election, sciences, bathroom, spring, astronomy, vegetables, circus, nature. Generate 100 other possible themes. For each theme, give between ten and twenty words that it could represent. Do not repeat any themes.
### You are teaching an English as a Second Language (ESL) class. To help your students learn new vocab, you have decided to divide the words into groups. Each group will be described by one adjective. Generate 100 possible adjectives. The adjectives you choose should be commonly used, choose a wide variety of adjectives, and do not repeat any adjectives. For each adjective, generate between ten and twenty words it describes. For example, words described by "green" include environment, sustainability, grasshopper, money, eco-friendly, frog, renewable, recycling, tea (green tea), envy, harmony, meadow, growth, apples (green apples), landscape, conservation, ecology, ireland. Words described by “funny" include comedian, personality, laughter, clown, comedy, show, humor, stand-up, prank, cartoon, gag, wit, comic, amusing, anecdote, hilarious, quirky, behavior, satirical, parody, movie, entertaining, story, silly, joke. 
### great! now do the same except for instead of adjectives, provide nouns that are representative of a group of words
### chatgpts category choices and example words were combined with semcats to create a gold standard